Fix: Installed packages aren't updated automatically on AL 2023 (#7848) (#7861)
DataBiosphere/azul: OPERATOR.rst

``….gitlab`` component, you can just specify the region of the component using
the ``--region`` option to ``aws ec2 describe-images``.

Updating software packages via release version upgrade in AL2023 instances
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Amazon Linux 2023 uses deterministic versioning, so package updates require
upgrading to a specific named release rather than running the default already

> installed in the AMI. To obtain the latest Amazon Linux 2023 release version,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
upgrading to a specific named release rather than using the default already
hard-coded in the AMI. Otherwise, packages would never be updated. To obtain the name of the latest Amazon Linux 2023 release,
```

SSH into the GitLab instance, say, ``anvildev.gitlab``, and run::

    sudo dnf check-release-update

> This prints the list of available AL2023 release versions. Note that the most

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This prints the list of available AL2023 releases. Note that the most
```

"release version" is somewhat redundant

> recent version is listed last. Each entry shows the release version string and

Reviewer: ```suggestion
recent release is listed last. Each entry shows the release version string and
```

> the command to apply it. Use the version string (e.g., ``2023.10.20260302``)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
the command to apply it. Copy the version string (e.g., ``2023.10.20260302``)
```

> the command to apply it. Copy the version string (e.g., ``2023.10.20260302``)

Reviewer: So, yes use "name of release" consistently. Or show evidence that "release version" is official AWS language.

Author: Evidence of the usage of ["release version"  by AWS](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/linux/al2023/ug/managing-repos-os-updates.html):

<img width="1531" height="1101" alt="Screenshot 2026-03-16 at 18 05 06" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/22842d2b-1a35-4eff-a0d5-94d6e6125be8" />
